.ds d \-\^\-
.ds o \fR[\fP
.ds c \fR]\fP
.ds | \fR|\fP
.de D
\\.B \*d\\$1
..
.de DI
\\.BI \*d\\$1 \\$2
..
.de DR
\\.BR \*d\\$1 \\$2
..
.de Di
\\.BI \*d\\$1 " \\$2"
..
.de Db
\\.B \*d\\$1 " \\$2"
..
.de Df
\\.B \*d\*ono\*c\\$1
..
.de See
See \fB\\$1\fP for details.
..
.de SeeIn
See \fB\\$1\fP in \fB\\$2\fP for details.
..
.de multiple
Multiple \fB\*d\\$1\fP values will accumulate.
..
.de default
Default value: \fB\\$1\fP
..
.TH KIND 8
.SH NAME
kind \- kind is no dirvish
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kind
[
.I OPTIONS
]
.I vault
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
Create a backup image of a client directory tree.
.P
Each image is a directory containing transfer
.BR rsync-log,
.B tree
and if errors were detected an
.B error
file.
The 
.B rsync-log
retains the the output of rsync listing all files that were changed or added with some statistical information.
Tree is the copy of the client tree.
.P
The client directory tree is compared with an existing image
to create a new image.
Unchanged files are shared between images.
For changed files
only those parts that actually change are transfered over the network.
Unchanged portions of files are copied from the reference image.
.P
The resulting images contain complete copies of the original trees
preserving ownership and file permissions.
In this way even though the backups are made incrementally,
each image can be used independently for restores
or to make removable-media off-site copies or archives.
.P
The removal of an image will have no effect on other images.
.P
After backup all images of the vault are checked and expired images 
are removed

.SH OPTIONS
.P
Each option may be unambiguously abbreviated.
.TP
.Di masterconfig  config-file
Load general options from the specified file. Default is /etc/d2/master.conf.
Configuration values from this file may be overwritten by the vault config 
files. The master config file must contain at least the specification of 
the banks
.TP
.D full
Create a full image without using a reference image. This is neccesary 
for the first backup.
.TP
.D dryrun
Don't actually do anything.

Process all configuration files, options and tests
then produce a summary on standard output and exit.
.TP
.D backuponly
Only backup, no expire
.TP
.D expireonly
Only expire, no backup
.TP
.D version
Print version string and exit.
.SH EXIT CODES
kind returns 0 in case of no error.
.SH FILES
.TP
.IB /etc/d2/ master.conf
Default master configuration file.
.TP
.IB bank/vault/d2/ vault.conf
Default vault configuration file.
.TP
.IB bank/vault/ last
Symlink to last image
.TP
.IB bank/vault/image/ error
Exists in case of error. May contain an error message.
.TP
.IB bank/vault/image/ rsync-log
Output of rsync command.
.TP
.IB bank/vault/image/ tree
actual image of source directory tree.

.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
ssh(1)
rsync(1)
.SH AUTHOR
kind was created by Wolfgang Ortmann.
.SH BUGS AND ISSUES
In order to preserve permissions
it is necessary for kind to run as root
on the backup server.

For an automated backup process the root user must have 
non-interactive ssh access to the client systems.
It is not necessary that this access be as the root user on the client.

File ownership is preserved using numeric values
so it is not necessary to have user accounts on the backup server.
Making the vaults network accessible
using protocols that map UIDs based on names instead of number
could allow access controls on files to be violated.

Making the vaults writable by users will compromise the integrity 
of the backups.
Therefore any access to the vaults by users
should be done through a read-only mount.
